---
Layout: post
Title: 90 days...
Date: 2016-11-13 10:42
Author: jamesleighton
Category: Real world
Tags: getting healthy, life
Slug: 90-days
Status: published
---

Since finishing uni last year and settling into a job I now spend considerable timing driving around the country. I haven't been living the healthiest lifestyle for the longest time, but now it's starting to show. And I hate it..

Being on the road quite a lot of the time is making it even worse. Did you know how fucking difficult it can be to eat well when you're travelling? Holy shit. It's hard!

Before I went to uni in 2012 I lost quite a bit of weight by cycling a few times a week for summer. It was great, and I remember feeling fantastic. My first year at uni wasn't so bad, since I didn't have any money anyways to spend on crap.

I fell back into lazy ways over the next 3-4 years until today where I feel permanently bloated & incessantly tired all the damn time. Something has to give!

So, for the next 90 days I am going to log everything I eat on a spreadsheet (you can ask me for a link, if you want) and try to use this to positively influence my diet choices. I am not going to use something like MyFitnessPal because that just becomes a chore working out exactly how many calories and shit... I am literally going to have a few columns and rows for a date. I might even colour code by 'how good' the day was aka no beer, or no fries. Or shock horror... no bacon!

I also really want to start Coach to 5 k (C25K), but I fear if I start that now I would destroy my ankles and probably keel over on day 2. Instead, I am going to try and go for increasingly more vigorous walks in all the places I end up visiting. Some of them are pretty damn nice!!


 
